In the last lecture, we had a close look at what happens at the point of time we visit localhost:4200
here in the browser.
We understood that the index.html file is served, that it will contain a bunch of scripts here which get
executed which then basically start the Angular app, the Angular app gets the important information,
that it should know, the app component that it should analyze it with that information the Angular code
is able to parse this here, this app-root component here
understand it and insert our Angular application at this point and that is why we don't see loading...
which would still be in the source code of this page as you can see
but instead why we see this because Angular overwrites this at runtime because that is what it does,
what its job is.
So now that we had a close look at this startup process, let's have a closer look at this component and
or @components in general. Components are a key feature in Angular,
you build your whole application by composing it from a couple of components which you create on your
own.
Now we do start with this app component, the root component you should say which holds our
entire application basically in the end.
So this root component, this app component will be the component where we later nest or add our other
components too,
so to this template, this HTML file of
the app component,
this is where we will later add our other components.
Typically, we might have a web page like this, with a header, with home and users, then a main area and
a side bar maybe.
Now if we have a look, this would be a fitting component, the header and maybe also the items on the header
could be their own component, could be, you don't have to,
you will learn throughout the course how I approach the splitting up of an application into separate components.
We also have of course our main area and the side bar here as components and that is the core idea behind Angular,
build components,
each component has its own template, its own HTML code, maybe its own styling
and more importantly also, its own business logic and this is the great benefit.
It allows you to split up your complex application, your complex webpage into reusable parts,
you may use a component more than once and that allows you to easily replicate that business logic,
replicate that styling or in general, make a finely controlled piece in your application without having
to crunch everything into one single script file, one single HTML file, instead
it's very easy to update, very easy to exchange and again re-usable.
So let's have a closer look at how we actually create a component and what this @component thing
does in the next lecture.